index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Ralph Aeschimann
description: Machine Learning Engineer
---

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# About Me

I am a Machine Learning engineer with focus on Computer Vision.

<div class="contact-links">
  <!--a href="mailto:your.email@example.com" class="contact-link">Email</a> -->
  <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/ralphaeschimann" class="contact-link">LinkedIn</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/aralph" class="contact-link">GitHub</a>
  <a href="assets/pdfs/resume_ralph_aeschimann.pdf" class="contact-link" target="_blank">📄 Resume PDF</a>
</div>

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Projects

<div class="project-grid">

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/shelfview.avif" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Product recognition in retail stores</h3>
  <p>Tech lead of product recognition team. See <a href="https://www.scandit.com/products/shelfview/" target="_blank">ShelfView Product website</a>.</p>
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">PyTorch</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Django</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">GCP</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/matrixscan.avif" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Barcode & text localization on mobile</h3>
  <p>Lead ML engineer for detection on edge devices. See <a href="https://www.scandit.com/products/matrixscan/" target="_blank">MatrixScan Product website</a>.</p>
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">PyTorch</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/vizarena.jpg" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Virtual ads during live sports broadcasting</h3>
  <p>Image segmentation for real-time augmented reality rendering. See <a href="https://www.vizrt.com/products/viz-arena/" target="_blank">Viz Arena Product website</a>.</p>

  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">CUDA</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Qt</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/csirogator.jpg" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Autonomous wheeled robot on cluttered grounds</h3>
  <p>Research on driving on obstacle avoidance for autonomous offroad driving. See <a href="https://research.csiro.au/robotics/gator/" target="_blank">The Gator autonomous vehicle website</a>.</p>
  
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">OpenCV</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">ROS</span>
  </div>
</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Publications

[Aeschimann, R.; Borges, P.V.K., “Ground or Obstacles? Detecting Clear Paths in Vehicle Navigation”, ICRA 2015, IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Paulo-Borges-14/publication/282374576_Ground_or_obstacles_Detecting_clear_paths_in_vehicle_navigation/links/592e6a88a6fdcc89e75b206e/Ground-or-obstacles-Detecting-clear-paths-in-vehicle-navigation.pdf)

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Experience

**Senior Machine Learning Engineer** | *[Scandit](https://www.scandit.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 08.2021 - Present
- Tech Lead and Python Guild Lead for 40+ engineers
- Built large-scale object detection and classification pipelines, validated with US retailer testset
- Led visual search product development, scaled to >1M images/day with 10 customer pilots
- Increased end-to-end accuracy from 40% to 90% within 18 months
- Grew project squad from 2 to 7 engineers with mentoring and technical leadership

**Machine Learning Engineer** | *[Scandit](https://www.scandit.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 10.2019 - 07.2021
- Launched real-time ML model for image segmentation running on 1M+ mobile devices monthly
- Trained binary neural networks for smartphones with 30x less memory usage
- Developed multi-stage training algorithms reducing model size by 50% at same quality
- Introduced Python coding guidelines and company-wide Request for Change process

**Computer Vision Engineer** | *[Vizrt](https://www.vizrt.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 10.2016 - 09.2019
- Developed real-time virtual advertisement overlay system for sports broadcasting
- Deployed neural networks for video segmentation in live TV with 50ms inference on 4K
- Automated training and fine-tuning of networks for customer-specific deployments

**Robotics Research Intern** | *[CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au) (Brisbane, Australia)* | 09.2013 - 08.2014
- Autonomous navigation research for large vehicles on industrial sites using stereo cameras
- Designed vision and LIDAR sensor fusion algorithms for obstacle avoidance

</div>

Commit message:

remove redundant override of title and description in index.md

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# About Me

I am a Machine Learning engineer based in Switzerland. I'm interested in Computer Vision, Robotics, and building real-time software systems. 

<div class="contact-links">
  <!--a href="mailto:your.email@example.com" class="contact-link">Email</a> -->
  <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/ralphaeschimann" class="contact-link">LinkedIn</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/aralph" class="contact-link">GitHub</a>
  <a href="assets/pdfs/resume_ralph_aeschimann.pdf" class="contact-link" target="_blank">📄 Resume PDF</a>
</div>

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Projects

<div class="project-grid">

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/shelfview.avif" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Product recognition in retail stores</h3>
  <p>Tech lead of product recognition team. See <a href="https://www.scandit.com/products/shelfview/" target="_blank">ShelfView Product website</a>.</p>
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">PyTorch</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Django</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">GCP</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/matrixscan.avif" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Barcode & text localization on mobile</h3>
  <p>Lead ML engineer for detection on edge devices. See <a href="https://www.scandit.com/products/matrixscan/" target="_blank">MatrixScan Product website</a>.</p>
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">PyTorch</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/vizarena.jpg" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Virtual ads during live sports broadcasting</h3>
  <p>Image segmentation for real-time augmented reality rendering. See <a href="https://www.vizrt.com/products/viz-arena/" target="_blank">Viz Arena Product website</a>.</p>

  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Python</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">CUDA</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">Qt</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  <img src="assets/images/csirogator.jpg" alt="Project image">
  <h3>Autonomous wheeled robot on cluttered grounds</h3>
  <p>Research on driving on obstacle avoidance for autonomous offroad driving. See <a href="https://research.csiro.au/robotics/gator/" target="_blank">The Gator autonomous vehicle website</a>.</p>
  
  <div class="skills-list">
    <span class="skill-tag">C++</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">OpenCV</span>
    <span class="skill-tag">ROS</span>
  </div>
</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Publications

[Aeschimann, R.; Borges, P.V.K., “Ground or Obstacles? Detecting Clear Paths in Vehicle Navigation”, ICRA 2015, IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Paulo-Borges-14/publication/282374576_Ground_or_obstacles_Detecting_clear_paths_in_vehicle_navigation/links/592e6a88a6fdcc89e75b206e/Ground-or-obstacles-Detecting-clear-paths-in-vehicle-navigation.pdf)

</div>

<div class="section" markdown="1">

# Experience

**Senior Machine Learning Engineer** | *[Scandit](https://www.scandit.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 08.2021 - Present
- Tech Lead and Python Guild Lead for 40+ engineers
- Built large-scale object detection and classification pipelines, validated with US retailer testset
- Led visual search product development, scaled to >1M images/day with 10 customer pilots
- Increased end-to-end accuracy from 40% to 90% within 18 months
- Grew project squad from 2 to 7 engineers with mentoring and technical leadership

**Machine Learning Engineer** | *[Scandit](https://www.scandit.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 10.2019 - 07.2021
- Launched real-time ML model for image segmentation running on 1M+ mobile devices monthly
- Trained binary neural networks for smartphones with 30x less memory usage
- Developed multi-stage training algorithms reducing model size by 50% at same quality
- Introduced Python coding guidelines and company-wide Request for Change process

**Computer Vision Engineer** | *[Vizrt](https://www.vizrt.com/) (Zürich, Switzerland)* | 10.2016 - 09.2019
- Developed real-time virtual advertisement overlay system for sports broadcasting
- Deployed neural networks for video segmentation in live TV with 50ms inference on 4K
- Automated training and fine-tuning of networks for customer-specific deployments

**Robotics Research Intern** | *[CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au) (Brisbane, Australia)* | 09.2013 - 08.2014
- Autonomous navigation research for large vehicles on industrial sites using stereo cameras
- Designed vision and LIDAR sensor fusion algorithms for obstacle avoidance

</div>
